# Introduction
**GameMaker Community Toolbox** is planned to be a collection of general-purpose utility functions for GameMaker. While some utility packages may have been published in the past, they would likely be a set of loosely related functions, likely found extremely useful by the author but not necessarily applicable to a wider range of users. Likewise, people would occasionally post useful scripts around the Internet, but it wouldn't get organised into a more comprehensive package. Something ready to integrate into GameMaker project with a one Import Local Package command or, if someone is feeling adventurous, with one Marketplace package download. Most likely, a number of utility functions serving the exact same purpose has been posted independently in different places.

GameMaker Community Toolbox aims to gather the most useful general-purpose functions into one comprehensive package. The selection of functions would be community-driven - GameMaker developers would suggest the new functions, upvote the feature requests they like and discuss the fine details (like function naming). Best case scenario, it would become a go-to utility package that GameMaker users would recommend for novice developers, especially when a programming question can be solved with some of the toolbox' functions.

Not only that, using the same utilities package would improve collaborations. Instead of two people independently using their own variations of common utility functions (differently named, too), they would use the same utilities. Thanks to using same function names, they would understand each other's code more easily as well.

**Note:** While GameMaker Community Toolbox is meant to be community-driven, I will still make the final decisions regarding whether to include a certain function in the package or not. This is to ensure that design guidelines will be adhered too, and also to avoid potential feature bloat, when many highly specific functions would be included.

# Design Guidelines
The functionality of GameMaker Community Toolbox is meant to be simple to learn and integrate into the project. Additionally, its users should be given virtually no reasons to modify the code in this package for personal needs.

In order to achieve these goals, the following design guidelines should be adhered to:
- **no configuration** - the entire toolbox functionality should be available from the get go, without the need to set any global variables, configure any macros, place any objects etc.
- **GML functions only** - related to the above: the entire toolbox functionality should be contained in plain old GML script functions; no macros, no enums, no objects, no sprites, nor any other assets would be included
- **no constructors** - constructors are prone to being situational - the range of needed operations and implementation details tend to vary from one use case to another much more than a plain, simple GML function
- **no additional dependencies** - the toolbox functions should depend only on GameMaker built-in functions and one another; no other extension or library should be necessary to include with the toolbox
- **intuitiveness** - as much as possible, the toolbox functions should be intuitive and unambiguous; ideally, the user should be able to grasp the function's purpose and basic usage just by reading its name and list of arguments
- **familiar conventiona** - all toolbox functions would use "snake_case" naming convention, to match the naming of GameMaker built-in functions; additionally, if a function relates to a specific area of GameMaker functions, it should be named similar to them (e.g. `instance_place_array` for an array-based counterpart to `instance_place_list`)
- **keeping Feathers clean** - each toolbox function should have a Feather-compliant JSDoc comment; moreover, the global scope should be devoid of internal helper functions (e.g. `__array_sort_by_comparer`); if an inner helper function is needed, it should be defined as static in the corresponding main function instead
- **broad applicability** - each toolbox function should be applicable to a broad range of games; a given function might not cover every single genre, but it still be usable to many of them (as opposed to being e.g. specific to 3D development)
